## This document contains supplementary material for the article “Health and Economic Burdens of Emerging Infectious Diseases in the United States, United States Territories, and Globally” by: JP Sevilla, Daria Burnes, Mona Birjandi, Joseph S. Knee, Julie M. Villanueva, David P. Durham, Scott V. Nystrom, Courtney D. Petro, Jennifer Lumpkins, Deborah Schneider, David E. Bloom, Richard C. White, and Robert A. Johnson. This material was created under a Creative Commons License 1.0. 
## **I. The repository includes:**
###   1.	CODE – This folder contains all Stata and Python code used in the analysis. 
### -	python_code – A compressed folder containing all the Python code used.
### -	stata_code – A compressed folder containing all the Stata code used.
### 2.	GENERAL – A compressed folder containing the final Stata outputs that are inputs into the models that conducted the historical analyses along with files related to study country lists and study country naming conventions.
### 3.	python_output – A compressed folder containing all the intermediate outputs and results that were generated by the Python code and were not presented in the article or supplemental files. Note that per our license restrictions, we are not able to share raw GBD 2021 data.
### 4.	stata_output – A compressed folder containing all the intermediate outputs and results that were generated by the Stata code and were not presented in the article or supplemental files. Note that per our license restrictions, we are not able to share raw GBD 2021 data.
### 5.	LIFE TABLES – A compressed Stata .dta file containing raw life tables. 
### 6.	LIFE EXPECTANCY – A compressed Stata .dta file containing discounted life expectancies.  
### 7.	RAW DATA – This folder contains the following compressed subfolders containing raw data used in the analysis:
### -	COUNTRY GROUPS
### -	ECONOMIC DATA
### -	OWID
### -	POPULATION
### -	TIER 2
### -	TIME USE
### Please note that the raw lifetables from the United Nations World Population Prospects (WPP) used in the analysis are shared on this site in LIFE TABLES/raw_life_tables.dta. The citation for the raw WPP data used to create the Stata .dta file is provided in the article. 
## **II. GBD 2021 data exclusions and redactions:** 
### Per our license restrictions, we are not able to share GBD 2021 data. Therefore, the RAW DATA folder excludes GBD 2021 data downloads, and we redacted GBD 2021 data (i.e., set all values equal to missing) in the following intermediate files: 
### •	stata_output/DALY/ 
### - dalys_per_case_2000_2022_12_eids.dta 
### - dalys_per_case_2000_2022_12_eids_cholera_data.dta
### - dalys_per_case_2000_2022_12_eids_ebola_data.dta 
### - dalys_per_case_2000_2022_12_eids_zika_data.dta 
### - dalys_per_case_2000_2022_cholera.dta 
### - dalys_per_case_2000_2022_cholera_bermuda.dta 
### - dalys_per_case_2000_2022_cholera_islands.dta 
### - dalys_per_case_2000_2022_cholera_owid_countries_not_in_ihme.dta 
### - dalys_per_case_2000_2022_cholera_us_territories.dta 
### - dalys_per_case_2000_2022_dengue.dta 
### - dalys_per_case_2000_2022_ebola.dta 
### - dalys_per_case_2000_2022_zika.dta 
### - dalys_per_case_2000_2022_zika_bermuda.dta 
### - zero_dengue_incidence_imputed.dta
### •	stata_output/ANALYSIS/df_produced.dta
### •	python_output/HEALTH/COVID-19/covid_country_ylds_per_case.xlsx
### •	python_output/ANALYSIS/df.xlsx
### •	GENERAL/dalys_per_case_2000_2022_12_eids.dta 
## **III. Notes on running code:**
### •	Due to the GBD 2021 data exclusions and redactions described above:
### -	It is not possible to replicate all intermediate outputs using the data shared on this site.
### -	It is not possible to replicate all the results presented in our article and supplemental files using the data shared on this site. 
### -	Error messages may be generated when running Stata .do files and Python .py files that rely on GBD 2021 data.
### •	The Python .py files can be run from the terminal or any Python integrated development environment (e.g., Spyder), and the .ipynb file can be run from a Jupyter Notebook.
### •	The top of each Stata .do file, Python .py file, and Python .ipynb file has a list of the input files used and output files generated by the program. 
### •	To run programs, the user will need to replace the “……” file paths with the file path appropriate to their drive and directory. 
### •	Each of the seven Stata .do files in “\stata_code\MASTERS” runs a set of Stata .do files in batch mode. The individual .do files in these “master” programs must be run in the order given in the “master” do-files.
### •	With the caveat that the GBD 2021 data exclusions and redactions noted above will prevent users from running some of our code and replicating all our outputs, the order in which the program files would be run to replicate our analysis is:
### 1.	master_general.do (creates initial country lists and discounted life expectancies) 
### 2.	country_list.py (processes country data for use in Python) 
### 3.	population.py (processes population data) 
### 4.	charmes_time_use.py (calculates paid and unpaid work time) 
### 5.	who_choice_macros.py (processes inputs used to calculate hospitalization costs) 
### 6.	who_choice_processing.py (estimates hospitalization costs) 
### 7.	vsl_macros.py (processes inputs used to calculate VSL) 
### 8.	vsl.py (estimates VSL, VSLY, and equity weights) 
### 9.	covid_dalys.py (estimates DALYs for COVID-19) 
### 10.	h1n1_processing.py (estimates DALYs for H1N1) 
### 11.	mers_dalys.py (estimates DALYs for MERS) 
### 12.	sars_dalys.py (estimates DALYs for SARS) 
### 13.	master_make_eid_data.do (creates analytical files for 11 diseases)
### 14.	master_dalys.do (estimates DALYs for 11 diseases)
### 15.	master_hourly_wage.do (constructs hourly wages for 223 study countries)
### 16.	master_misc.do (constructs final country lists and the scale factors used to construct 2022 COVID-19 full burdens)
### 17.	Health_Economic_Cost_Calculations.ipynb (produces results of historical and projection analysis) 
### Program 17 “Health_Economic_Cost_Calculations.ipynb” takes as inputs the final outputs from programs 1-16 and generates the following files:
### -	python_output\ANALYSIS\df.xlsx. This workbook contains all the outputs we summarize in the historical analysis.
### -	python_output\ANALYSIS\Monte Carlo Results.xlsx. This workbook contains the outputs we summarize in the projection analysis.
